# STO-proj-AOM-overlap
A unified interface of the Analytic Overlap Method (AOM) with CP2K DFT simulations

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Unified STO projection / AOM overlap code
-------------------------------------------

 Alpha version: 0.1
 1-Oct-2019
 
 Orestis George Ziogos, UCL
 oziogos@gmail.com
 o.ziogos@ucl.ac.uk

 For further information, refer to:
 J. Chem. Theory Comput. 2014, 10, 4653
 https://doi.org/10.1021/ct500527v

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Building instructions
-----------------------

Go to the ./src directory and make sure that the LAPACK and BLAS libraries are properly linked. The current UNIX version has been successfully tested using Netlib LAPACK 3.6.1 (GNU) with the linking option:

'STD_LIBS = -lm -L\<path to library\> -llapack -lrefblas -lgfortran'

Once the libraries are properly defined in the makefile, just run:

make

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Keywords
----------

The program reads from the command line a single configuration file.

* Top level directives:

 mode: molecule || dimer

 verb: none || default || debug

* STO projection (mode: molecule)

 name: project name - no spaces!

 molecule: the XYZ coordinates file for the single molecule

 basis: the CP2K utilized basis set (e.g. DZVP, TZVP, 6.31G*, etc...)

 basis_file: the CP2K basis set ASCII file (e.g. GTH_BASIS_SETS, EMSL_BASIS_SETS, etc...). CP2K basis set files are normally located inside the 'data' directory in the CP2K parent directory.

 MO_file: the molecular orbitals log file generated by CP2K - make sure you used the 'CARTESIAN' keyword inside &FORCE_EVAL-\>&DFT-\>&PRINT-\>&MO.

 MO: the target molecular orbital index
 
 MO_channel: select alpha (1) or beta (2) spin channel from the MOLog file. This keyword can be also used if the MOLog file has multiple run entries, e.g. if there're data from two simulation runs, MO_channel=3 will select the alpha spin channel of the second run.

 cube: yes || no

 cube_grid: CUBE file grid tessellation constant (a value of 0.25 is typically sufficient)

 proj_mu: \<species\> \<s exponent coefficient\> \<p exponent coefficient\> 

* AOM overlap (mode: dimer)

 dimer: the XYZ coordinates file for the dimer
 
 AOM_include: the AOM coefficients data file. Use the AOM_coeff file(s) generated by the STO projection step. Make sure that the number of lines is equal to the number of atoms in the dimer and that the ordering is consistent.
  
 atoms_frag1: the number of atoms belonging to the first fragment of the molecular dimer
 
 AOM_mu: \<species\> \<s exponent coefficient\> \<p exponent coefficient\> 
 
 phase: \<scale_frag_1\> \<scale_frag_2\>
  By default, the phase of each AOM fragment is read directly from the AOM_include file. Use these keywords for phase inversion, e.g. 'phase 1 -1' will invert the phase of the second fragment.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Notes
-------

* Supported species: H, C, N, O, S.

* CP2K GTOs: supports up to l=2 angular momentum GTOs (s, p, and d functions).

* The AOM overlap calculation uses ONLY STO-p contributions!

* If the verbosity is set to 'debug' in the 'dimer' mode, fragment cube files are also
  generated.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
